Technical review: Long Animation Frame API docs (#32937)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/performancelonganimationframetiming/blockingduration/index.md

---
title: "PerformanceLongAnimationFrameTiming: blockingDuration property"
short-title: blockingDuration
slug: Web/API/PerformanceLongAnimationFrameTiming/blockingDuration
page-type: web-api-instance-property
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.PerformanceLongAnimationFrameTiming.blockingDuration
---

{{SeeCompatTable}}{{APIRef("Performance API")}}

> The **`blockingDuration`** readonly property of the {{domxref("PerformanceLongAnimationFrameTiming")}} interface returns a {{domxref("DOMHighResTimeStamp")}} indicating the total time the animation frame was being blocked, in milliseconds.

Reviewer: It works best with an example.
Let's say you fetched a resource, and now you have 100ms worth of JS to process.
If you yield in the middle (e.g. split with a `setTimeout`), the browser decide to (a) render a frame and only then run the rest of the script, or (b) wait until all of the JS is run and then render the frame. You can also decide yourself to not yield at all (c).

If you didn't yield at all, your duration would be 100ms and the blocking duration will be 50ms. (a)
If you yielded, and the browser decided to wait until all the JS is run, the duration will be 100ms and the blocking duration will be 0 - that's because you let the browser handle higher priority work. (b)
If you yielded and the browser decided to render, the duration will be 50ms and the blocking duration will be 0. (c)

So if you're measuring pure UX, you should use `duration`. You could diminish the duration by having less JS overall in this case.
If you're measuring effect on responsiveness, you probably want to go with `blockingDuration` - because the browser (at least chromium) will let input events execute if you yield.

Does this make more sense?

> The **`blockingDuration`** readonly property of the {{domxref("PerformanceLongAnimationFrameTiming")}} interface returns a {{domxref("DOMHighResTimeStamp")}} indicating the total time the animation frame was being blocked, in milliseconds.

Reviewer 2: Edited above comment to correct some figures.

> The **`blockingDuration`** readonly property of the {{domxref("PerformanceLongAnimationFrameTiming")}} interface returns a {{domxref("DOMHighResTimeStamp")}} indicating the total time the animation frame was being blocked, in milliseconds.

Reviewer: Exactly, where the rendering task is united with to the longest task.

> The **`blockingDuration`** readonly property of the {{domxref("PerformanceLongAnimationFrameTiming")}} interface returns a {{domxref("DOMHighResTimeStamp")}} indicating the total time the animation frame was being blocked, in milliseconds.

Author: This is pretty brain-melting stuff, and it's certainly good that we are trying to explain it. I think I am starting to get it, but I do have a couple of outstanding questions:

1. I think we ought to update the descriptions of `duration` and `blockingDuration` to make it clearer what they are; at the moment what I've got is a big vague. Am I right in saying that `duration` is the total time taken to process the LoAF script, and `blockingDuration` is the total time LoAF script processing was blocked by rendering?
2. You are suggesting to add "Blocked is defined as the sum of times above 50ms for each task in the frame." - to clarify, are you saying that `blockingDuration` is the sum of all task durations inside the frame of more than 50ms, after 50ms has been subtracted from each one?
3. Further to this, why? I read about this in the spec and the explainer, and didn't really get why this is the case.

> The **`blockingDuration`** readonly property of the {{domxref("PerformanceLongAnimationFrameTiming")}} interface returns a {{domxref("DOMHighResTimeStamp")}} indicating the total time the animation frame was being blocked, in milliseconds.

Reviewer: 1. Not exactly. `blockingDuration` is the time the main thread was blocked from responding to high priority tasks, such as input. 
2. Yes, with the rendering duration duration counted as part of the longest task
3. Great question! Happy to (try to) explain

`duration` measures the response time of this LoAF *in practice*, while `blockingDuration` measures *potential effect* on responsiveness - which is more equivalent to jank. It tries to answer the question "given input during this frame, for how long will this frame feel janky?"

In terms of timeline visualization, think of `startTime -> (startTime + duration)` to be a big yellow bar that overlaps many things like scripts, ends with rendering, and has lots of "red" spots inside that are the blocking ends of the long tasks. `blockingDuration` sums the red spots.

For the purposes of jank, `blockingDuration` is really what matters. `duration` is important for correlation - you use it to understand, for example, whether style+layout took a long time, and what other things

> The **`blockingDuration`** readonly property of the {{domxref("PerformanceLongAnimationFrameTiming")}} interface returns a {{domxref("DOMHighResTimeStamp")}} indicating the total time the animation frame was being blocked, in milliseconds.

Reviewer 2: Another way is to think about it like this. Say you had these tasks to process:

1. 5ms
2. 10ms
3. 120ms

Well for a start the browser doesn't know the length in advance. So we have some special knowledge here cause we can see in to the future, but go with me here.

At any point a more important task could come along. These are generally user-input (e.g. the user clicked on a button and we want to action that first, rather than any other queued tasks which are likely of lesser importance) and rendering (the browser _tries_ to render every 16ms).

So it starts processing task 1. Then it can take a break. Before moving on to task 2 it can check if there's any other user inputs (nope!) or if it's time to render (also nope!).

So it starts processing task 2. We're now up to 15ms. If there's still no user input, and it's still not rendering time (though at 15ms it's pretty close to maybe the browser will decide to render here - but let's assume not).

So it starts processing task 3. This "blocks" the browser from doing anything for the next 120ms. That's not great. Ideally we like it to block for 50ms max—well ideally a lot short than that! Especially if you want to render every 16ms! But we're realistic here and so we set a "this is awful" target of 50ms.

Think of it like < 16ms is "good", 16ms -> 50ms is "not great - needs improvement", and > 50ms is "poor".

Maybe once we've "solved" 50ms being quick normally we can reduce long tasks to be anything > 16ms? But think we've a long way to go before we can even consider that! But that would be ideal. Though of course by then everyone will be using monitors that are > 60Hz (16ms a frame), so we'll have even less than that. The work never stops!!

Anyway, we end up with a LoAF of 135ms (plus whatever rendering time), of which 70ms was blocking time from that third task.

Now let's do the same thing, but this time with a user input that takes 30ms and that happens somewhere while the browser is processing step 2.

In that case it processes the first task for 5ms, then the second for 10ms, then it sees the input so bumps task 3 to task 4. After processing that user input it's now done 45ms of processing in total so it decides to take a break there and fit in a render. The long 120ms task gets bumped to the next frame.

And in that case, assuming the rendering is quick, this first frame might still be under 50ms and not report a LoAF at all! Which is great. Admittedly it's not 16ms but, as per above, we've gotta be realistic as to what we can do here.

With smaller tasks the browser has more options to bump things. With longer tasks (above 50s) the browser can't do that as much and it's probably gonna be noticeable—it's **definitely** going to be a long task AND a long frame.

> The **`blockingDuration`** readonly property of the {{domxref("PerformanceLongAnimationFrameTiming")}} interface returns a {{domxref("DOMHighResTimeStamp")}} indicating the total time the animation frame was being blocked, in milliseconds.

Author: Thanks for all the help on this, @tunetheweb and @noamr. I've written it all up into an extended "Description" section on the [`blocking duration` ref page](https://pr32937.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/Web/API/PerformanceLongAnimationFrameTiming/blockingDuration#description), and linked to it from relevant places.

See https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/32937/commits/207a694759c1c68979fb7bffd481e5fbab233b7e for exactly what changed in that commit.

> The **`blockingDuration`** readonly property of the {{domxref("PerformanceLongAnimationFrameTiming")}} interface returns a {{domxref("DOMHighResTimeStamp")}} indicating the total time the animation frame was being blocked, in milliseconds.

Reviewer 2: Ah see you used the exact example. Maybe a little detailed, but does explain it well so I like it.

Looks technically correct but made one comment.

> The **`blockingDuration`** readonly property of the {{domxref("PerformanceLongAnimationFrameTiming")}} interface returns a {{domxref("DOMHighResTimeStamp")}} indicating the total time the animation frame was being blocked, in milliseconds.

Author: Yup — it is a really good example, and helped me understand exactly what is going on ;-)

2. Run the rest of the script first, then render the frame.

Alternatively — option 3. — is if we decide not to yield and let the browser deal with the entire script in one task.

> **Note:** The browser will generally try to prioritize important tasks (such as user interactions) and rendering new frames over less important tasks it might have queued. The browser will _try_ to render a new frame every 16ms.

Assuming the rendering time is 10ms, timings for the LoAFs in each of the three options are as follows:

| Option | `duration` (LoAF 1) | `blockingDuration` (LoAF1)        | `duration` (LoAF2) | `blockingDuration` (LoAF2) |
| ------ | ------------------- | --------------------------------- | ------------------ | -------------------------- |
| 1.     | 65ms                | 15ms (65 - 50)                    | 80ms               | 40ms (80 + 10 - 50)        |
| 2.     | 145ms (65 + 80)     | 55ms ((65 - 50) + (80 + 10 - 50)) | n/a\*              | n/a\*                      |
| 3.     | 145ms (65 + 80)     | 105ms ((65 + 80) + 10 - 50)       | n/a\*              | n/a\*                      |

`*` In options 2. and 3., there is only a single LoAF.

> Note that the total `duration` in all three instances is 145ms. The total `blockingDuration` in the first two is the same (55ms), but it is 50ms longer in the second as the task was not split into two. This highlights the importance of optimizing long tasks by yielding — regardless of how the browser decides to handle the tasks, the blocking duration will still be less than if you don't yield at all.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the total `duration` in all three instances is 145ms. The total `blockingDuration` in the first two is the same (55ms), and it's just a matter of how the browser decides to split it.

The third option however has a much longer `blockingDuration` because the browser is completely blocked and unable to interrupt the long task at all.

This highlights the importance of optimizing long tasks by yielding — regardless of how the browser decides to handle the tasks, the blocking duration will still be less than if you don't yield at all.
```
